[Music]
do you enjoy being tickled in truth I've
met few people who would firmly answer
yes to this question and well it seems
not too much of a problem you can have
trust issues because of childhood
tickling it sounds crazy but there's
plenty of reasons for that first
tickling is dominant when you tickle
your kids it looks like you're having
lots of fun together laughing and
rolling them writhing to get away from
your fingers and it's exactly this
reaction that can be harmful in the long
run you see when you're the tickler you
get full control of the situation
especially with little kids you're much
bigger and stronger than they are and
it's easy for you to catch and continue
tickling them the child on the other
hand is in the submissive position since
they're not able to get away from you
even if they want to all in all it might
seem like an innocent game but there's a
lesson to be learned here and it's
probably not one you're going to like
the child might easily get an impression
that will last them their whole life
that tickling is a way to subdue them
such kids may well grow up to be adults
who flinch at the slightest hint of
tickling you don't want that for your
baby now do you
kids might not be able to say stop have
you ever laughed so hard you couldn't
catch your breath and started gasping
well when you laugh because of the
tickles it's almost guaranteed to you
the child can't stop laughing if you go
on tickling them and at some point they
simply become unable to say anything
getting red in the face and struggling
even to breathe when this happens the
game is no longer a game the kid can't
tell you to stop and you continue just
because they're laughing so hard you
think they're enjoying it in fact though
it's pretty much a foolproof way to
cause panic in the child because they
can't take control over the situation it
pays to know when to finish the game and
let your baby boy or girl go ticklish
laughter isn't real laughter you might
think that smiling and giggling are
self-explanatory but with tickling it's
not so easy a study was conducted at the
University of California in 1997 that
proved there is no connection between
ticklish laughter and genuine laughter
when you're being tickled you laugh
because you can't help it it's more of a
reflex like a knee-jerk reaction with
genuine laughter it's absolutely the
opposite you laugh because you want to
and you're not forced to do it genuine
laughter creates happy feelings and
gives rise to dopamine levels in your
body while ticklish laughter is just an
illusion that a person is happy so
consider this when you tickle your kid
the next time perhaps they don't even
like it at all tickling was a method of
extracting information once now this is
way too unexpected I know but if you
think of it this makes perfect sense let
me ask you a question do you know how
much tickling you can endure
give me your answers in the comments I
really want to know if you've never
thought about it though then picture
this in different countries and at
different times tickling was used to
force information from people believe me
it only sounds stupid for the first few
minutes when you're constantly tickle
for hours on end without any means to
escape that's no joke remember I told
you that kids might be unable to
stop because they lack the breath for
that well adults experience tickles in
the same way so I guess you can imagine
what kind of feelings those poor souls
being interrogated had I probably
confess to anything just to make it stop
it was as early as 1939 that in Gove's
otterman from the Karolinska Institute
found out tickling depended in part on
the same nerve fibers as pain sensation
that means if you tickle someone you
might easily bring it to the point where
it becomes unpleasant and even painful
many researchers also point out that
tickling can be considered a form of
physical abuse so it's not all fun and
games after all tickling can cause trust
issues in adulthood when you tickle your
kids you don't think it will do them any
harm but in fact it could lead to a deep
psychological trauma parenting expert
Patti whip Fleur says that when
recalling traumatic experience from
their childhood adults talk about
tickling often some were tickled by
their parents in the form of a game
others by their siblings sometimes with
not such a good intent in any case for
those adults who suffered from it as
kids tickling has become a thing they
instinctively fear there are
surprisingly many people who feel
uncomfortable when touched by another
person even a close one in more severe
cases people get stiff and tense when
someone as much as makes a move to touch
them this psychological barrier is not
something you can easily get rid of and
it takes its roots from childhood now
there's something else to be said about
tickling that's not obvious for example
a child can ask to be tickled if it
happens there may be two explanations
the first is that your kid generally
likes this formal play that really can
be the case especially in a loving and
caring atmosphere at home where the
child is respected if you only tickle
them when they ask you and stop when
they've had enough they won't feel like
it's something bad so go on feel free to
play that game the second explanation is
a cause for concern however
some children ask their parents to
tickle them not because they like it but
because it's the only way to make the
parents play with them that means two
things at once one the parents have been
choosing tickling as a shortcut to get
their kids laughing and two it's been
the main mode of play for a long time if
not ever the kids just don't know that
other ways to make contact exist so they
ask to be tickled Patti wit Fleur
reminds there are in fact many other
games to be played with children that
involve touching and laughing together
for example you can cry I've got a
thousand hugs for you and start chasing
the kid about while they scream with
laughter and run away from you when you
catch them they'll wriggle out of your
arms and you'll go another round it's
exactly this kind of mutual play that
strengthens the bond between you of
course you're still in the dominant
position but the kids don't feel they're
helpless and enjoy finding new ways to
outsmart you still even tickling can be
made into a real game for the two of you
it's quite simple just pretend that
you're about to tickle your kid but
don't do it hover your hands an inch or
two away from the child's body while
making the usual playful hustle and
bustle trust me it'll have the same
effect as actual tickling but without
the danger of making it abusive and you
can also let the child ickle you in
return yes they'll get to tickle you for
real and you'll have to play along but
hey it's your kid and anyway when they
reverse the rules making you the victim
instead of being one they feel relief
from the tension that's built up because
of being tickled themselves and that's a
good thing since they feel they're in
control it will positively affect their
future as many things do and last but
certainly not least a piece of advice
from parenting experts that concerns not
only tickling but any kind of play don't
be too much children love to play with
their parents but the games must be fair
that is kids need to be guiding the play
and be guided in equal measure that way
you'll bring up a healthy and happy
child and that's what every parent wants
it so your turn what games do you prefer
to play with kids let me know down in
the comments me I like water balloon
toss a kids think it's funny to get the
big guy wet if you learn something new
today
then give this video a like and share it
with a friend but hey don't go pitching
water balloons just yet wait for me and
we have over 2000 cool videos for you to
check out all you have to do is pick the
left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life
right side of
[Music]